---
layout: post
author: bta
tags: news announcements trans community
cloudinary_image: posts/bmore-tmor-2015a.jpg
---
BALTIMORE, MD - On November 20th, 2015, The Baltimore Transgender Alliance and our allies will participate in Transgender March of Resilience, the first nationally organized day of protest led by trans people of color to promote justice and equality for all trans people in the face of daily discrimination and violence. Traditionally, the 20th of November is Transgender Day of Remembrance, a time to mourn and reflect upon the lives lost in the previous year.  Trans March of Resilience will serve to raise awareness for Trans Day of Remembrance, as we recognize the need for not only a moment of silence, but also a moment to lift every voice in our community.
In the wake of the Baltimore Uprising in April and May of this past year, transgender activists saw a need to create a new narrative in our city and state and put focus on the issues affecting our community. Since then, the Baltimore Transgender Alliance has organized July’s #BaltimoreTransUprising March, hosted State’s Attorney Marilyn Mosby, and held a dialogue with representatives from the U.S. Department of Justice.  Our involvement in the Transgender March of Resilience is a direct extension of these efforts. We will march in solidarity with Transgender Activists from New York City, San Francisco, New Orleans, and many more cities across the country.
It is imperative that we present a united front with activists from many different backgrounds so that we can build and maintain a broad coalition to fight transphobia, homophobia, misogyny, white supremacy, classism, and ableism, which motivate the majority of violence against our communities. "In a system of white supremacy, it's imperative that social justice be centered and focused on the lives of queer and/or trans folks of color, those most severely impacted by systemic and structural violence and oppression,” states Michael David Battle, Founding Director at Garden of Peace Project.
We will march from two starting points at 4:00pm, the Y Not Lot on North Avenue and also from Pennsylvania Station. The two marches will converge on the War Memorial Plaza, where we will hold a rally to proclaim loudly and clearly that trans lives, especially those of trans people of color, matter and can no longer be ignored. At the end of the rally, protestors will carry candles as they march to the First Unitarian Church on West Franklin Street for the Transgender Day of Remembrance service. For more information please contact the Lead Organizer, Bryanna A. Jenkins, at bryannaaeon@me.com
