---
layout: post
author: ava
tags: ['press releases', 'TMOR', 'baltimore']
cloudinary_image: posts/bmore-tmor-2016a.jpg
---
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
Second Annual Baltimore Transgender March of Resilience to be Held
<!--more-->
BALTIMORE, MD - On November 20th, 2016, The Baltimore Transgender Alliance and our allies will hold the Transgender March of Resilience, the second annual nationally organized day of protest led by trans people of color to promote justice and equality for all trans people in the face of daily discrimination and violence. Traditionally, the 20th of November is Transgender Day of Remembrance, a time to mourn and reflect upon the lives lost in the previous year. Trans March of Resilience will serve to celebrate and honor the people who we’ve lost and the lives that they lived, as we recognize the need for not only a moment of silence, but also a moment to lift every voice in our community.

In the wake of the Baltimore Uprising in April and May of last year, transgender activists saw a need to create a new narrative in our city and state and put focus on the issues affecting our community. Since then, the Baltimore Transgender Alliance has organized last July’s #BaltimoreTransUprising March, hosted State’s Attorney Marilyn Mosby, and held a dialogue with representatives from the U.S. Department of Justice. Members of our team spoke at a Johns Hopkins School of Public Health symposium on gun violence and its effect on LGBTQ communities in an effort to publicly reclaim our narrative. Following the death of Crystal Edmonds this September, we organized a public vigil in her memory and a community memorial for members of Baltimore’s LGBTQ+ community in the interest of unifying the disparate elements that make up Baltimore’s transgender community and empowering the most marginalized among us. Our involvement in the Transgender March of Resilience is a direct extension of these efforts. We will march in solidarity with Transgender activists from New York City, San Francisco, New Orleans, and many more cities across the country.

It is imperative that we present a united front with activists from many different backgrounds in yet again the deadliest year on record for transgender women of color, so that we can build and maintain a broad coalition to fight transphobia, homophobia, misogyny, white supremacy, classism, and ableism, which motivate the majority of violence against our communities. "In a system of white supremacy, it's imperative that social justice be centered and focused on the lives of queer and/or trans folks of color, those most severely impacted by systemic and structural violence and oppression,” states Michael David Battle, Founding Director at Garden of Peace Project.

We will gather at the YNOT lot, then take to the street and march from Charles St. up to 25th St. and down St. Paul St. over to the Calvert St. park on 23rd. Here we will rally together to reclaim our narrative and celebrate our transgender experiences as we live them. Finally, we will move to 2640 Space, where we will host a community dinner with musical performances, poetry, and free food for those who wish to join us.

For more information, please contact us via our facebook: https://facebook.com/bmoretransalliance
