---
layout: post
author: bta
tags: news announcements trans community
cloudinary_image: posts/bmore-tmor-2017b.png
---
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
WEDNESDAY, NOV 8, 2017

Baltimore Trans Community Holds Celebration of Trans Lives

BALTIMORE, MD - On November 20th, 2017 The Baltimore Transgender Alliance will hold the Transgender March of Resilience, a celebration of transgender community,

Traditionally, the 20th of November is Transgender Day of Remembrance, an annual tradition of honoring our dead that started in 1998 following the murder of Rita Hester. This holiday has served our community as a time to mourn and reflect upon the lives senselessly lost to transphobic violence in the previous year. However, the impact of silence is lost on those who already feel voiceless --Our tradition, the Trans March of Resilience, subverts this holiday & serves to celebrate the resilience of life in our community.

The Baltimore Transgender Alliance has a foundation built on an understanding of intersectionality and therefore maintains a broad coalition to fight transphobia, homophobia, misogyny, white supremacy, classism, and ableism. Those who face multiplicity of these identities can only make our tapestries richer & our revolution stronger.

The BTA was started by transgender women of color & continues that dedication to that community & its needs today. This is done by way of making space for those marginalized voices, empowering them to speak their truth & write their own realities. All of this is to say that it is important to recognize, especially on November 20th, that transgender women of color are disproportionately represented in the violence that our community faces.


The March gathers at YNOT lot at 5:30, on the corner of North and Charles, then proceeds up the stroll at around 6. Elders and folx with different levels of ability will join from the Safeway parking lot on 25 and Charles, as well as from the GLCCB. The elders will lead the March to it's conclusion at 27th and St. Paul's. Inside the 2640 Space we will rally. This will transition into our evening of dinner and entertainment. The event ends at 9.


For more information, please contact us in one of the following ways:

Jamie Grace Alexander, jamie.grace@bmoretransalliance.com, 443-567-1873
Ava Pipitone, ava.pipitone@bmoretransalliance.com, 443-823-4839
Email us at info@bmoretransalliance.com
Or contact us on Facebook: https://facebook.com/bmoretransalliance
